Back to "world database":mangosdb_struct list of tables.

h2. The `areatrigger&#95;teleport` table

Contains all the teleport triggers definition. This table is used to complete .dbc file information.

h3. Structure


|*Field*|*Type*|*Null*|*Key*|*Default*|*Extra*|
|"id":Areatrigger_teleport#id|mediumint(8) unsigned|NO|PRI|0||
|"name":Areatrigger_teleport#name|text|YES||||
|"required_level":Areatrigger_teleport#required_level|tinyint(3) unsigned|NO||0||
|"required_item":Areatrigger_teleport#required_item|mediumint(8) unsigned|NO||0||
|"required_item2":Areatrigger_teleport#required_item|mediumint(8) unsigned|NO||0||
|"heroic_key":Areatrigger_teleport#heroic_key|mediumint(8) unsigned|NO||0||
|"heroic_key2":Areatrigger_teleport#heroic_key|mediumint(8) unsigned|NO||0||
|"required_quest_done":Areatrigger_teleport#required_quest_done|int(11) unsigned|NO||0||
|"required_quest_done_heroic":Areatrigger_teleport#required_quest_done_heroic|int(11) unsigned|NO||0||
|"required_failed_text":Areatrigger_teleport#required_failed_text|text|YES||||
|"target_map":Areatrigger_teleport#target_map|smallint(5) unsigned|NO||0||
|"target_position_x":Areatrigger_teleport#target_position_x|float|NO||0||
|"target_position_y":Areatrigger_teleport#target_position_y|float|NO||0||
|"target_position_z":Areatrigger_teleport#target_position_z|float|NO||0||
|"target_orientation":Areatrigger_teleport#target_orientation|float|NO||0||


h3. Description of the fields

h4. id

This is the trigger identifier, it must match with the one from AreaTrigger.dbc

h4. name

Name of the trigger. This can be an arbitrary name, and is for descriptive purposes only.

h4. required&#95;level

Level necessary to activate this trigger

h4. required&#95;item

The necessary item(s) to activate this trigger (see "item&#95;template.entry":item_template#entry)

h4. heroic&#95;key

The key that unlocks heroic version for a trigger leading to an instatiable map with heroic mode support. If two are specified, you only need one to activate heroic mode.

h4. required&#95;quest&#95;done

Required quest done as attunement to use the trigger (see "quest&#95;template.entry":quest_template#entry).

h4. required&#95;quest&#95;done&#95;heroic

Required Heroic quest done as attunement to use the trigger (see "quest&#95;template.entry":quest_template#entry).

h4. required&#95;failed&#95;text

Failed text shown to players who do have not done the attunement quest yet.

h4. target&#95;map

Target map of the trigger (See "Map.dbc":Map.dbc)

h4. target&#95;position&#95;x

X coordinate for the target destination of the trigger

h4. target&#95;position&#95;y

Y coordinate for the target destination of the trigger

h4. target&#95;position&#95;z

Z coordinate for the target destination of the trigger

h4. target&#95;orientation

Orientation the player will get when appearing at this location
