Back to "world database":mangosdb_struct list of tables.

h2. The `creature&#95;movement&#95;(template)` table

This table holds all the information on each creature's waypoints. In essence, a waypoint just defines a path that the creature will follow by going from point to point. More specifically, once the creature arrives at a point, it can do different things like cast a spell, do an emote, etc. Usually this table is filled through the .wp command (and its various subcommands) in the world.

Please note that for a creature to use waypoints, its "MovementType":creature_template#MovementType must be 2.

h3. Structure


|*Field*|*Type*|*Null*|*Key*|*Default*|*Extra*|
|"id":Creature_movement_(template)#id|int(10) unsigned|NO|PRI|0||
|"point":Creature_movement_(template)#point|int(10) unsigned|NO|PRI|0||
|"position_x":Creature_movement_(template)#position_x|float|NO||0||
|"position_y":Creature_movement_(template)#position_y|float|NO||0||
|"position_z":Creature_movement_(template)#position_z|float|NO||0||
|"waittime":Creature_movement_(template)#waittime|int(5) unsigned|NO||0||
|"script":Creature_movement_(template)#script_id|mediumint(8) unsigned|NO||0||
|"text1":Creature_movement_(template)#text|int(11)|NO||0||
|"text2":Creature_movement_(template)#text|int(11)|NO||0||
|"text3":Creature_movement_(template)#text|int(11)|NO||0||
|"text4":Creature_movement_(template)#text|int(11)|NO||0||
|"text5":Creature_movement_(template)#text|int(11)|NO||0||
|"emote":Creature_movement_(template)#emote|int(10) unsigned|YES||0||
|"spell":Creature_movement_(template)#spell|int(5) unsigned|YES||0||
|"wpguid":Creature_movement_(template)#wpguid|int(11)|YES||0||
|"orientation":Creature_movement_(template)#orientation|float|YES||0||
|"model1":Creature_movement_(template)#model1|int(11)|YES||0||
|"model2":Creature_movement_(template)#model2|int(11)|YES||0||


h3. Description of the fields

h4. id

The GUID of the creature (NOT the template ID). See "creature.guid":creature#guid

h4. point

Defines the waypoint number. A creature will go from waypoint to waypoint in the order controlled by this field.

h4. position&#95;x

The X position of the waypoint.

h4. position&#95;y

The Y position of the waypoint.

h4. position&#95;z

The Z position of the waypoint.

h4. waittime

The time that the creature will wait before heading to the next waypoint, in milliseconds.

h4. script&#95;id

Reference to "creature_movement_scripts":creature_movement_scripts .

h4. text

The text ID that the creature will say once it reaches the waypoint. There are up to 5 different texts that the creature will randomly choose from once it reaches the waypoint. See "db_script_string.":db_script_string.

h4. emote

The emote ID that the creature will perform once it reaches the waypoint. There are two types of emotes that creatures can perform. In the first type, oneshot emotes, the creature will perform the emote and then come back to their original spot. In the second, state emote, the creature performs the emote and will stay in that emote position or state.

h4. spell

The spell ID that the creature will cast once it reaches the waypoint. The spell will be casted on itself.

h4. wpguid

The GUID of the waypoint wisp that appears to signal where a creature's waypoints are visually.

h4. orientation

The orientation the creature will face once it reaches the waypoint.

h4. model1

The model that the creature morphs into once it reaches the waypoint. See "creaturedisplayinfo.dbc":creaturedisplayinfo.dbc

h4. model2

The model that the creature morphs into once it leaves the waypoint.
