Back to "creature_ai_scripts":creature_ai_scripts tables.

h2. The `creature&#95;ai&#95;texts` table

This table holds all the texts used within the eventai (ACID) scripts. This table handles the actual text, display type (say/yell/emote) and corresponding sounds or emote (if any).

h3. Structure


|Field|Type|Attributes|Can be null|Default|Comments|
|"entry":Creature_ai_texts#entry|int(11)|signed|NO|0|Text Entry|
|"content_default":Creature_ai_texts#content_default|text||YES|NULL|Default Locale Text|
|"content_loc1":Creature_ai_texts#content_loc|text||YES|NULL|Locale 1 Text|
|"content_loc2":Creature_ai_texts#content_loc|text||YES|NULL|Locale 2 Text|
|"content_loc3":Creature_ai_texts#content_loc|text||YES|NULL|Locale 3 Text|
|"content_loc4":Creature_ai_texts#content_loc|text||YES|NULL|Locale 4 Text|
|"content_loc5":Creature_ai_texts#content_loc|text||YES|NULL|Locale 5 Text|
|"content_loc6":Creature_ai_texts#content_loc|text||YES|NULL|Locale 6 Text|
|"content_loc7":Creature_ai_texts#content_loc|text||YES|NULL|Locale 7 Text|
|"content_loc8":Creature_ai_texts#content_loc|text||YES|NULL|Locale 8 Text|
|"sound":Creature_ai_texts#sound|int(11)|unsigned|NO|0|Sound Id|
|"type":Creature_ai_texts#type|int(11)|unsigned|NO|0|Text Type|
|"language":Creature_ai_texts#language|int(11)|unsigned|NO|0|Text Language|
|"emote":Creature_ai_texts#emote|int(11)|unsigned|NO|0|Emote Id|
|"comment":Creature_ai_texts#comment|text||YES|NULL|Comment|


h3. Description of the fields

h4. entry

This is the entry of the text. It corresponds to a script using Action 1 (ACTION&#95;T&#95;SAY) in the "eventai&#95;scripts":Event_AI table. This number is always negative.

h4. content&#95;default

This is the actual text presented in the default language (English).

h4. content&#95;loc

This is the actual text presented in the Localization #(1-8) Clients


|Value|Localization|
|1|Korean|
|2|French|
|3|German|
|4|Chinese|
|5|Taiwanese|
|6|Spanish|
|7|Spanish Mexico|
|8|Russian|


h4. sound

This is the sound Id that will play with along with the corresponding text. All sounds are from sounds.dbc.

h4. type

This is the method the text is displayed.


|Value|Type|
|0|Say|
|1|Yell|
|2|Text Emote|
|3|Boss Emote|
|4|Whisper|
|5|Boss Whisper|


h4. language

This is the ingame language of the text. Languages are from "Languages.dbc.":Languages.dbc.

h4. emote

This is the emote that the creature performs along with the corresponding text.

h4. comment

This field allows you to label a text entry.
