Back to "world database":mangosdb_struct list of tables.

h2. The `creature&#95;model&#95;info` table

This table contains all models of mobs, their gender and other information that are model related. This means that when a creature uses another model, this information will change as well.

h3. Structure


|*Field*|*Type*|*Null*|*Key*|*Default*|*Extra*|
|"modelid":Creature_model_info#modelid|mediumint(8) unsigned|NO|PRI|0||
|"bounding_radius":Creature_model_info#bounding_radius|float|NO||0||
|"combat_reach":Creature_model_info#combat_reach|float|NO||0||
|"gender":Creature_model_info#gender|tinyint(3) unsigned|NO||2||
|"modelid_other_gender":Creature_model_info#modelid_other_gender|mediumint(8) unsigned|NO||0||
|"modelid_alternative":Creature_model_info#modelid_alternative|mediumint(8) unsigned|NO||0||


h3. Description of the fields

h4. modelid

Display ID from CreatureDisplayInfo.dbc

h4. bounding&#95;radius

A field scaled with size.
Might or might not have any relation to some radius of a bowl enclosing the creature.
Currently badly used in the above suggested way in some cases, which is false in general.

h4. combat&#95;reach

This is an additional distance that is added to range of attacks (both melee and spells) to check if an attack can reach the enemy.

h4. gender

Gender of the creature

* 0: Male
* 1: Female
* 2: None

h4. modelid&#95;other&#95;gender

Point to "Creature&#95;model&#95;info.modelid":Creature_model_info#modelid. When the entry is gender male (0) or female (1), this value can point to the display id of the other gender.

h3. modelid&#95;alternative

Alternative to the current model.
