Back to "world database":mangosdb_struct list of tables.

h2. The `creature&#95;movement` table

This table holds all the information on each creature's waypoints. In essence, a waypoint just defines a path that the creature will follow by going from point to point. More specifically, once the creature arrives at a point, it can do different things like cast a spell, do an emote, etc. Usually this table is filled through the .wp command (and its various subcommands) in the world.

Please note that for a creature to use waypoints, its "MovementType":creature_template#MovementType must be 2.

h3. Structure


|*Field*|*Type*|*Null*|*Key*|*Default*|*Extra*|
|"id":creature_movement#id|int(10) unsigned|NO|PRI|0||
|"point":creature_movement#point|int(10) unsigned|NO|PRI|0||
|"position_x":creature_movement#position_x|float|NO||0||
|"position_y":creature_movement#position_y|float|NO||0||
|"position_z":creature_movement#position_z|float|NO||0||
|"waittime":creature_movement#waittime|int(5) unsigned|NO||0||
|"script_id":creature_movement#script_id|mediumint(8) unsigned|NO||0||
|"text1":creature_movement#text|int(11)|NO||0|Obsolete, Do not use this Field|
|"text2":creature_movement#text|int(11)|NO||0|Obsolete, Do not use this Field|
|"text3":creature_movement#text|int(11)|NO||0|Obsolete, Do not use this Field|
|"text4":creature_movement#text|int(11)|NO||0|Obsolete, Do not use this Field|
|"text5":creature_movement#text|int(11)|NO||0|Obsolete, Do not use this Field|
|"emote":creature_movement#emote|int(10) unsigned|YES||0|Obsolete, Do not use this Field|
|"spell":creature_movement#spell|int(5) unsigned|YES||0|Obsolete, Do not use this Field|
|"orientation":creature_movement#orientation|float|YES||0||
|"model1":creature_movement#model1|int(11)|YES||0|Obsolete, Do not use this Field|
|"model2":creature_movement#model2|int(11)|YES||0|Obsolete, Do not use this Field|


h3. Description of the fields

h4. id

The GUID of the creature. See "creature.guid":creature#guid .

h4. point

Defines the waypoint number. A creature will go from waypoint to waypoint in the order controlled by this field.

h4. position&#95;x

The X position of the waypoint.

h4. position&#95;y

The Y position of the waypoint.

h4. position&#95;z

The Z position of the waypoint.

h4. waittime

The time that the creature will wait before heading to the next waypoint, in milliseconds.

h4. script&#95;id

Reference to "DBScripts_on_creature_movement":DBScripts_on_creature_movement .

h4. text

Obsolete, use "DBScripts_on_creature_movement":DBScripts_on_creature_movement instead!

The text ID that the creature will say once it reaches the waypoint. There are up to 5 different texts that the creature will randomly choose from once it reaches the waypoint. See "db_script_string.":db_script_string.

h4. emote

Obsolete, use "DBScripts_on_creature_movement":DBScripts_on_creature_movement instead!

The emote ID that the creature will perform once it reaches the waypoint. There are two types of emotes that creatures can perform. In the first type, oneshot emotes, the creature will perform the emote and then come back to their original spot. In the second, state emote, the creature performs the emote and will stay in that emote position or state.

h4. spell

Obsolete, use "DBScripts_on_creature_movement":DBScripts_on_creature_movement instead!

The spell ID that the creature will cast once it reaches the waypoint. The spell will be casted on itself.

h4. orientation

The orientation the creature will face once it reaches the waypoint. 
(North = 0.0; South = pi (3.14159))

Setting this field to 100 means the creature will not change its orientation upon reaching the waypoint.

h4. model1

Obsolete, use "DBScripts_on_creature_movement":DBScripts_on_creature_movement instead!

The model that the creature morphs into once it reaches the waypoint. See "creaturedisplayinfo.dbc":creaturedisplayinfo.dbc

h4. model2

Obsolete, use "DBScripts_on_creature_movement":DBScripts_on_creature_movement instead!

The model that the creature morphs into once it leaves the waypoint.
