Back to "world database":mangosdb_struct list of tables.

h2. The `game&#95;event&#95;creature&#95;data` table

Contains all creature instances that need to change display id and/or equipment during defined game events.

h3. Structure


|*Field*|*Type*|*Null*|*Key*|*Default*|*Extra*|
|"guid":Game_event_creature_data#guid|int(11) unsigned|NO|PRI|||
|"entry_id":Game_event_creature_data#id|mediumint(8) unsigned|NO|PRI|||
|"modelid":Game_event_creature_data#modelid|mediumint(8) unsigned|NO||0||
|"equipment_id":Game_event_creature_data#equipment_id|mediumint(8) unsigned|NO||0||
|"spell_start":Game_event_creature_data#spell_start|mediumint(8) unsigned|NO||0||
|"spell_end":Game_event_creature_data#spell_end|mediumint(8) unsigned|NO||0||
|"event":Game_event_creature_data#event|mediumint(9) unsigned|NO||0||


h3. Description of the fields

h4. guid

Guid of the creature participating in the event ("creature.guid":creature#guid)

h4. entry&#95;id

Creature_template entry to change the GUID to during the event

h4. modelid

New model to be used while the event is active (Refers to "creature&#95;model&#95;info.modelid":creature_model_info#modelid) Use 0 if only the "equipment":#equipment_id is to be changed during event.

h4. equipment&#95;id

New equipment to be used during the event (Refers to "creature&#95;equip&#95;template.entry":creature_equip_template#entry)) Use 0 if only the "model":#modelid is to be changed during event.

h4. spell&#95;start

Spell for NPC to cast when game event starts

h4. spell&#95;end

Spell for NPC to cast when game event ends

h4. event

Entry of the event ("game&#95;event.entry":game_event#entry)

* In this table, event entry can only be positive
