Back to "world database":mangosdb_struct list of tables.

h2. The `gossip&#95;menu&#95;option` table

This table holds infos about menu options a gossip NPC can have. Examples of options : &quot;Train me!&quot;, &quot;I want to unlearn my talents&quot;, ...

h3. Structure


|*Field*|*Type*|*Attributes*|*Key*|*Null*|*Default*|
|"menu_id":Gossip_menu_option#menu_id|smallint(6)|unsigned|PRI|NO|0|
|"id":Gossip_menu_option#id|smallint(6)|unsigned|PRI|NO|0|
|"option_icon":Gossip_menu_option#option_icon|smallint(6)|unsigned|PRI|NO|0|
|"option_text":Gossip_menu_option#option_text|text|signed||YES|NULL|
|"option_id":Gossip_menu_option#option_id|tinyint(3)|unsigned||NO|0|
|"npc_option_npcflag":Gossip_menu_option#npc_option_npcflag|int(10)|unsigned||NO|0|
|"action_menu_id":Gossip_menu_option#action_menu_id|mediumint(8)|unsigned||NO|0|
|"action_poi_id":Gossip_menu_option#action_poi_id|mediumint(8)|unsigned||NO|0|
|"action_script_id":Gossip_menu_option#action_script_id|mediumint(8)|unsigned||NO|0|
|"box_coded":Gossip_menu_option#box_coded|tinyint(3)|unsigned||NO|0|
|"box_money":Gossip_menu_option#box_money|int(11)|unsigned||NO|0|
|"box_text":Gossip_menu_option#box_text|text|signed||YES|NULL|
|"condition_id":Gossip_menu_option#condition_id|mediumint(8)|unsigned||NO|0|


h3. Description of the fields

h4. menu&#95;id

Gossip entry from "Gossip&#95;menu.entry":Gossip_menu#entry this option is associated with.

h4. id

The id associated with this gossip&#95;menu&#95;option. Must be unique for a given menu&#95;id

h4. option&#95;icon

|_. Value|_. ICON Name|_. description|
|0|GOSSIP&#95;ICON&#95;CHAT|white chat bubble|
|1|GOSSIP&#95;ICON&#95;VENDOR|brown bag|
|2|GOSSIP&#95;ICON&#95;TAXI|flight|
|3|GOSSIP&#95;ICON&#95;TRAINER|book|
|4|GOSSIP&#95;ICON&#95;INTERACT&#95;1|interaction wheel|
|5|GOSSIP&#95;ICON&#95;INTERACT&#95;2|interaction wheel|
|6|GOSSIP&#95;ICON&#95;MONEY&#95;BAG|brown bag with yellow dot|
|7|GOSSIP&#95;ICON&#95;TALK|white chat bubble with black dots|
|8|GOSSIP&#95;ICON&#95;TABARD|tabard|
|9|GOSSIP&#95;ICON&#95;BATTLE|two swords|
|10|GOSSIP&#95;ICON&#95;DOT|yellow dot|


h4. option&#95;text

This is is the text that you want displayed for this option. Examples would be &quot;Train Me!&quot; &quot;Get off my lawn&quot;, &quot;Learn Dual Spec&quot;.

h4. option&#95;id

|_. option&#95;id|_. Option name|_. npc&#95;option&#95;npcflag|
|0|GOSSIP&#95;OPTION&#95;NONE|0|
|1|GOSSIP&#95;OPTION&#95;GOSSIP|1|
|2|GOSSIP&#95;OPTION&#95;QUESTGIVER|2|
|3|GOSSIP&#95;OPTION&#95;VENDOR|128|
|4|GOSSIP&#95;OPTION&#95;TAXIVENDOR|8192|
|5|GOSSIP&#95;OPTION&#95;TRAINER|16|
|6|GOSSIP&#95;OPTION&#95;SPIRITHEALER|16384|
|7|GOSSIP&#95;OPTION&#95;SPIRITGUIDE|32768|
|8|GOSSIP&#95;OPTION&#95;INNKEEPER|65536|
|9|GOSSIP&#95;OPTION&#95;BANKER|131072|
|10|GOSSIP&#95;OPTION&#95;PETITIONER|262144|
|11|GOSSIP&#95;OPTION&#95;TABARDDESIGNER|524288|
|12|GOSSIP&#95;OPTION&#95;BATTLEFIELD|1048576|
|13|GOSSIP&#95;OPTION&#95;AUCTIONEER|2097152|
|14|GOSSIP&#95;OPTION&#95;STABLEPET|4194304|
|15|GOSSIP&#95;OPTION&#95;ARMORER|4096|
|16|GOSSIP&#95;OPTION&#95;UNLEARNTALENTS|16&#42;|
|17|GOSSIP&#95;OPTION&#95;UNLEARNPETTALENTS|16&#42;|
|18|GOSSIP&#95;OPTION&#95;LEARNDUALSPEC|16&#42;|


@*   bonus option for GOSSIP_OPTION_TRAINER@ @NOTE: For NPC you must be combinate option_id and npc_option_npcflag, you also need the npc_flag in creature_template@

h4. npc&#95;option&#95;npcflag

This is the npcflag that the NPC must have to have this option display. See "option&#95;id":#option_id

h4. action&#95;menu&#95;id

If you want to create a sub-menu, this is the ID to link to create that sub-menu.
This sub-menu will be displayed when you click on the current menu.

NOTE: If you want gossip window to close when selecting this gossip option use -1 for this value. 

h4. action&#95;poi&#95;id

If you want a POI (point of interest) to display on the minimap, this is the `entry` from `points&#95;of&#95;interest`

h4. action&#95;script&#95;id

The ID from the `gossip&#95;scripts` table if this gossip option has a script.

h4. box&#95;coded

If you want a box to display where you have to enter a code, this is the field you use. I have no clue how it works, will have to look at the code...

h4. box&#95;money

Money asked (in copper).

h4. box&#95;text

Confirmation text before activating the gossip.

h4. condition&#95;id

If set the option will only be displayed if the condition linked to "condition&#95;id":conditions fits
