Back to "world database":mangosdb_struct list of tables.

h2. The `spell_affect` table

This table holds information on what spells are affected by what spell mods. All spells in this table need to apply an aura that either adds a flat modifier to other spells or adds a percent modifier to other spells. Also, a single row in this table only holds information on a single spell effect that applies the aura. Therefore since a spell may have up to three effects, a maximum of 3 rows per spell is allowed. However, only the spell effects that apply the flat or percent auras will be used.

h3. Structure

|*Field*|*Type*|*Null*|*Key*|*Default*|*Extra*|
|"entry":Spell_affect#entry|smallint(5) unsigned|NO|PRI|0||
|"effectId":Spell_affect#effectid|tinyint(3) unsigned|NO|PRI|0||
|"SpellClassMask0":Spell_affect#spellclassmask|int(5) unsigned|NO||0||
|"SpellClassMask1":Spell_affect#spellclassmask|int(5) unsigned|NO||0||
|"SpellClassMask2":Spell_affect#spellclassmask|int(5) unsigned|NO||0||

h3. Description of the fields

h4. entry

The modifying spell entry ID. See Spell.dbc

h4. effectId

The effect index of the effect that applies the aura with the flat or percent modifier. This field along with "entry":#entry defines a single modifying entry. The effect IDs are numbered starting with 0, so the first effect is 0, the next is 1, and finally the last is 2.

h4. SpellClassMask

This field controls what class a spell needs to have to be affected by the modifier. This is the main field that defines which spells are affected by modifiers. For SpellClass see spell.dbc (in WoW-3.0.3 column 211)

h4. SpellFamilyName

SpellFamilyName need to align for affecting/affected Spell(s).

|_. ID|_. Family Name|_. ID|_. Family Name|
|0|Generic|9|Hunter|
|3|Mage|10|Paladin|
|4|Warrior|11|Shaman|
|5|Warlock|13|Potion|
|6|Priest|15|Death Knight|
|7|Druid|53|Monk|
|8|Rogue|107|Demon Hunter|

