Back to "world database":mangosdb_struct list of tables.

h2. The `spell&#95;bonus&#95;data` table

Table used for storing custom damage/healing bonus coefficients.

h3. Structure


|*Field*|*Type*|*Attributes*|*Key*|*Null*|*Default*|*Extra*|*Comment*|
|"entry":Spell_bonus_data#entry|mediumint(8)|unsigned|PRI|NO|0|||
|"direct_bonus":Spell_bonus_data#direct_bonus|float|signed||NO|0|||
|"dot_bonus":Spell_bonus_data#dot_bonus|float|signed||NO|0|||
|"ap_bonus":Spell_bonus_data#ap_bonus|float|signed||NO|0|||
|"ap_dot_bonus":Spell_bonus_data#ap_dot_bonus|float|signed||NO|0|||
|"comments":Spell_bonus_data#comments|varchar(255)|signed||YES|NULL|||


h3. Description of the fields

h4. entry

Spell ID. See "Spell.dbc.":Spell.dbc.


h4. direct&#95;bonus

Direct spell power damage.
If &lt; 0
Calculate default spell power coefficient.
If = 0
Don't apply any spell power coefficient. (Don't scale damage with spellpower)
If &gt; 0
Use this as new spell power coefficient.

h4. dot&#95;bonus

Spell damage over time.

If &lt; 0 Calculate default spell power coefficient. If = 0 Don't apply any spell power coefficient. (Don't scale damage with spellpower) If &gt; 0 Use this as new spell power coefficient.

h4. ap&#95;bonus

Direct Melee/Ranged damage.
If &lt; 0
Calculate default attack power coefficient.
If = 0
Don't apply any attack power coefficient. (Don't scale damage with attack power)
If &gt; 0
Use this as new attack power coefficient.

h4. ap&#95;dot&#95;bonus

Melee/Ranged damage over time.
If &lt; 0
Calculate default attack power coefficient.
If = 0
Don't apply any attack power coefficient. (Don't scale damage with attack power)
If &gt; 0
Use this as new attack power coefficient.

h4. comments

Comment as why it has such values and name of the spell.
