*Commits that must be backported from C-MaNGOS TBC (branch cleaned_tbc_history)*

***

This file stores commits that should be backported from C-MaNGOS-TBC to C-MaNGOS-Classic
The content of this file is created with the update-commit-log.sh helper file

Just delete the commits that are not required for backporting.
Also feel free to paste notes here about other missing backports

***

This has no application in classic content. Keep it here as reference in case it was needed to get code in sync!
TBC(cleaned)_COMMIT 237f9ab  by VladimirMangos (commiter TheLuda) " <pre><code> [s1326] Implement in proper way ITEM_SPELLTRIGGER_ON_STORE (5) "
</code></pre>

DestroyItemWithOnStoreSpell does not exist in Classic - Missing another backport?
TBC(cleaned)_COMMIT 6605f7a  by VladimirMangos (commiter TheLuda)
<pre><code> [s1327] More consitence use m_target for DestroyItemWithOnStoreSpell call in aura.
</code></pre>

Xfurry: not sure if the following is required
"tbc(cleaned)":http://github.com/cmangos/mangos-tbc/commit/aace559: aace559 * virusav (committer Salja)<pre><code>[s1457] Remove check for quest_template if QuestSort and SkillId match
</code></pre>

***

bq. Xfurry: Transporter commits - require additional research
stfx: Could only think of being used for pets so that they dont fall off the transport when it starts moving - but its impossible to say without npc-on-transport being finished

* "tbc(cleaned)":http://github.com/cmangos/mangos-tbc/commit/252e045: 252e045 * kid10 (committer stfx)<pre><code>[s1685] Implement abstract classes for transporter
  94.6% src/game/
   3.2% win/VC100/
</code></pre>

* "tbc(cleaned)":http://github.com/cmangos/mangos-tbc/commit/1c71e40: 1c71e40 * kid10 (committer stfx)<pre><code>[s1686] Add a TransportInfo class to WorldObjects
  62.8% src/game/movement/
  32.0% src/game/
   5.1% src/shared/
</code></pre>

* "tbc(cleaned)":http://github.com/cmangos/mangos-tbc/commit/ffd46e6: ffd46e6 * kid10 (committer Xfurry)<pre><code>[s1734] Add abstract Board/Unboard Passenger functions to TransportBase
  95.7% src/game/
   4.2% src/shared/
</code></pre>

* "tbc(cleaned)":http://github.com/cmangos/mangos-tbc/commit/b8e5466: b8e5466 * evil-at-wow (committer Xfurry)<pre><code>Fix build on Linux/GCC: hash_map's 'erase' member takes an iterator, so passing it a const_iterator is a no go.
 100.0% src/game/
</code></pre>

End of transporter commits

***

bq. Xfurry: Disengage commits - not sure if apply to classic

* "tbc(cleaned)":http://github.com/cmangos/mangos-tbc/commit/55d1fb6: 55d1fb6 * Den (committer Xfurry)<pre><code>[s1768] Fix Spell::CheckCast for Disengage
  82.3% src/game/
  17.6% src/shared/
</code></pre>

* "tbc(cleaned)":http://github.com/cmangos/mangos-tbc/commit/bd5ce36: bd5ce36 * rsa (committer Xfurry)<pre><code>[s1771] Make check for Disengange like spells of [12215] more generic
  90.0% src/game/
   9.9% src/shared/
</code></pre>

* "tbc(cleaned)":http://github.com/cmangos/mangos-tbc/commit/254f1a0: 254f1a0 * Schmoozerd (committer Xfurry)<pre><code>[s1828] Use SpellFocus check for all Spells
  84.3% src/game/
  15.6% src/shared/

bq. stfx: On 1.12 I am pretty sure that SMSG_PET_CAST_FAILED doesnt have the added cast_count but then again neither has SMSG_CAST_FAILED. Maybe those two cant use the same structure on 1.12 as its done on master/tbc.
</code></pre>

End of other misc commits

***