Back to "world database":mangosdb_struct list of tables.

h2. The `creature&#95;movement&#95;(template)` table

holds information on each creature's waypoints. In essence, a waypoint just defines a path that the creature will follow by going from point to point. More specifically, once the creature arrives at a point, it can do different things like cast a spell, do an emote, etc. Usually this table is filled through the .wp command (and its various subcommands) in the world.

Please note that for a creature to use waypoints, its "MovementType":creature#MovementType must be 2.

h3. Structure

|*Field*|*Type*|*Null*|*Key*|*Default*|*Extra*|
|"entry":creature_movement_(template)#id|int(10) unsigned|NO|PRI|0||
|"pathId":creature_movement_(template)#pathId|int(10) unsigned|NO|PRI|0||
|"point":Creature_movement_(template)#point|int(10) unsigned|NO|PRI|0||
|"position_x":creature_movement_(template)#position_x|float|NO||0||
|"position_y":creature_movement_(template)#position_y|float|NO||0||
|"position_z":creature_movement_(template)#position_z|float|NO||0||
|"waittime":creature_movement_(template)#waittime|int(5) unsigned|NO||0||
|"script_id":creature_movement_(template)#script_id|mediumint(8) unsigned|NO||0||
|"orientation":creature_movement_(template)#orientation|float|YES||0||

h3. Description of the fields

h4. entry

The entry of the creature if creature_movement_(template). See "creature_template.entry":Creature_template#Entry.

h4. pathId

Random Paths an entry can get assigned.

h4. point

Defines the waypoint number. A creature will go from waypoint to waypoint in the order controlled by this field.

h4. position&#95;x

The X position of the waypoint.

h4. position&#95;y

The Y position of the waypoint.

h4. position&#95;z

The Z position of the waypoint.

h4. waittime

The time that the creature will wait before heading to the next waypoint, in milliseconds.

h4. script&#95;id

Reference to "DBScripts_on_creature_movement":DBScripts_on_creature_movement .

h4. orientation

The orientation the creature will face once it reaches the waypoint. 
(North = 0.0; South = pi (3.14159))

Setting this field to 100 means the creature will not change its orientation upon reaching the waypoint.