Back to "world database":mangosdb_struct list of tables.

h2. The `creature` table

contains individual creature spawn data. Spawn of a creature is an instance of the creature object in the world.

h3. Structure

|*Field*|*Type*|*Null*|*Key*|*Default*|*Extra*|
|"guid":creature#guid|int(10) unsigned|NO|PRI|None|auto_increment|
|"id":creature#id|mediumint(8) unsigned|NO|MUL|0||
|"map":creature#map|smallint(5) unsigned|NO|MUL|0||
|"spawnMask":creature#spawnmask|tinyint(3) unsigned|NO||1||
|"phaseMask":creature#phasemask|smallint(5) unsigned|NO||1|(WotLK)|
|"modelid":creature#modelid|mediumint(8) unsigned|YES||0||
|"equipment_id":creature#equipment_id|mediumint(9)|NO||0||
|"position_x":creature#position_x|float|NO||0||
|"position_y":creature#position_y|float|NO||0||
|"position_z":creature#position_z|float|NO||0||
|"orientation":creature#orientation|float|NO||0||
|"spawntimesecsmin":creature#spawntimesecsmin|int(10) unsigned|NO||120||
|"spawntimesecsmax":creature#spawntimesecsmax|int(10) unsigned|NO||120||
|"spawndist":creature#spawndist|float|NO||5||
|"currentwaypoint":creature#currentwaypoint|mediumint(8) unsigned|NO||0||
|"curhealth":creature#curhealth|int(10) unsigned|NO||1||
|"curmana":creature#curmana|int(10) unsigned|NO||0||
|"DeathState":creature#deathstate|tinyint(3) unsigned|NO||0||
|"MovementType":creature#movementtype|tinyint(3) unsigned|NO||0||

h3. Description of the fields

h4. guid

A unique identifier given to each creature to distinguish one creature from another. Two creatures can NOT have same GUID.

h4. id

The id of the template that is used when instantiating this creature. See "creature_template.entry":creature_template#entry

h4. map

The Map ID of the position of the creature. See "Map.dbc":Map.dbc

h4. spawnMask

Controls under which difficulties the creature will be spawned.

|_. Value|_. Comment|
|0|Not spawned|
|1|Spawned only in 10-man-normal versions of maps (includes maps without a heroic mode)|
|2|Spawned only in 25-man-normal versions of maps (or heroics pre 3.2)|
|4|Spawned only in 10-man heroic versions of maps|
|8|Spawned only in 25-man-heroic versions of maps|
|15|Spawned in all versions of maps|

h4. phaseMask

Defines which phase the creature belongs. 1 is default phase, rest are from spell's aura 261, (Aura #261) (4) = phasemask = 4.

h4. modelid

The model ID associated with this creature. Note that two creatures that use the same template can have different models. See "creature_model_info":creature_model_info for more information on model-specific characteristics.

h4. equipment_id

The ID of the equipment that the creature is using. See "creature_equip_template.entry":creature_equip_template#entry

h4. position_x

The X position of the creature.

h4. position_y

The Y position of the creature.

h4. position_z

The Z position of the creature.

h4. orientation

The orientation of the creature. (North = 0.0; South = pi (3.14159))

h4. spawntimesecsmin

The minimum respawn time of the creature in seconds.

h4. spawntimesecsmax

The maximum respawn time of the creature in seconds.

h4. spawndist

The maximum distance that the creature should spawn from its spawn point. Also controls how far away the creature can walk from its spawn point if its "MovementType":creature#MovementType = 1.

|_. Value|_. Comment|
|1|Orientation change only|
|2|Lowest random movement value|
|5|Default random movement value|

h4. currentwaypoint

The current waypoint number that the creature is on, if any. See "creature_movement.point":creature_movement#point

h4. curhealth

The current health that the creature has.

h4. curmana

The current mana that the creature has.

h4. DeathState

The creature's death state. 
A boolean, 0 = Alive, 1 = Corpse lying dead around (no gossip possible when dead, if you need corpse-gossip use dynamicflags|32)

h4. MovementType

See "creature_template.MovementType":creature_template#MovementType for possible values.

creature_movement and creature_movement_template need to have MovementType set to 2 for a guid.