Back to "world database":mangosdb_struct list of tables.

h2. The `dbscripts_on_*` tables

The manual reference for these tables is located in the "doc/script_commands.txt":https://github.com/cmangos/mangos-wotlk/blob/master/doc/script_commands.txt file.

*The information below may be outdated, use with caution!*


This table format is used for different tables to control possible scripts activated by different actions:

* *`dbscripts_on_go_[template]_use:* Holds possible scripts activated by gameobjects.
    Source: object user (unit); Target: gameobject.
    ** dbscripts_on_go_template_use can be used for any type of gameobject.
    ** dbscripts_on_go_use can be used only for GAMEOBJECT_TYPE_DOOR (0) and GAMEOBJECT_TYPE_BUTTON (1)

* *`dbscripts_on_spell:* Holds scripts that can be activated by spells with the following spell effects:
    ** SPELL_EFFECT_DUMMY (3)
    ** SPELL_EFFECT_TRIGGER_SPELL (64) - only for missing triggered spells
    ** SPELL_EFFECT_SCRIPT_EFFECT (77)
    Source: caster; Target: target.

* *`dbscripts_on_relay:* Holds scripts that can be activated by AI or other dbscripts. The usage of IDs is as following:
    ** Classic - 1-9999
    ** TBC     - 10000-19999
    ** WotLK   - 20000+
    Source and Target are defined by the mechanism that launched it.

* *`dbscripts_on_quest_start:* Holds scripts activated when a player accepts a quest.
    Source: quest giver (creature); Target: player; Script execution unique by source.

* *`dbscripts_on_quest_end:* Holds scripts activated when a player finishes a quest.
    Source: quest taker (creature); Target: player; Script execution unique by source.

* *`dbscripts_on_creature_movement:* Holds scripts activated while a npc is moving.
    Source: moving creature; Target moving creature.

* *`dbscripts_on_creature_death:* Holds scripts activated when a creature dies.
    Source: killed creature; Target: responsible killer (unit or player).

* *`dbscripts_on_event:* Holds scripts activated whenever an event is activated by spell, gameobject or taxi waypoints. The following spell effects and gameobjecs can activate an event:
    ** SPELL_EFFECT_SEND_EVENT (61)
    ** GAMEOBJECT_TYPE_CHEST (3)
    ** GAMEOBJECT_TYPE_GOOBER (10)
    ** GAMEOBJECT_TYPE_TRANSPORT (11) [not supported yet]
    ** GAMEOBJECT_TYPE_CAMERA (13)
    ** GAMEOBJECT_TYPE_MO_TRANSPORT (15) [partially supported]
    ** GAMEOBJECT_TYPE_FLAGDROP (26) [not supported yet]
    ** GAMEOBJECT_TYPE_CAPTURE_POINT (29)
    ** GAMEOBJECT_TYPE_DESTRUCTIBLE_BUILDING (33)
    Source, Target and Script execution can be different based on the event activation source.

* *`dbscripts_on_gossip:* Holds scripts activated on gossip_menu_option or gossip_menu.
    ** For gossip_menu - Source: player; Target: gossip holder (creature or gameobject); Script execution unique by target.
    ** For gossip_menu_option when gossip holder is creature - Source: gossip holder (creature); Target: player; Script execution unique by source.
    ** For gossip_menu_option when gossip holder is gameobject - Source: player; Target: gossip holder (gameobject); Script execution unique by target.

NOTE: An entry in this table may have more than one row as a script may do more than just one action. Also each action the script may make can have a separate "delay":dbscripts#delay attached to it. In that case, the core will activate the appropriate action after the correct "delay":dbscripts#delay.

h3. Structure

|*Field*|*Type*|*Null*|*Key*|*Default*|*Extra*|
|"id":dbscripts#id|int(8) unsigned|NO||0||
|"delay":dbscripts#delay|int(10) unsigned|NO||0||
|"command":dbscripts#command|mediumint(8) unsigned|NO||0||
|"datalong":dbscripts#otherfields|mediumint(8) unsigned|NO||0||
|"datalong2":dbscripts#otherfields|int(10) unsigned|NO||0||
|"datalong3":dbscripts#otherfields|int(11) unsigned|NO||0||
|"buddy_entry":dbscripts#buddy_entry|int(10) unsigned|NO||0||
|"search_radius":dbscripts#search_radius|int(10) unsigned|NO||0||
|"data_flags":dbscripts#data_flags|tinyint(3) unsigned|NO||0||
|"dataint":dbscripts#otherfields|int(11)|NO||0||
|"dataint2":dbscripts#otherfields|int(11)|NO||0||
|"dataint3":dbscripts#otherfields|int(11)|NO||0||
|"dataint4":dbscripts#otherfields|int(11)|NO||0||
|"x":dbscripts#otherfields|float|NO||0||
|"y":dbscripts#otherfields|float|NO||0||
|"z":dbscripts#otherfields|float|NO||0||
|"o":dbscripts#otherfields|float|NO||0||
|"comments":dbscripts#otherfields|VARCHAR(255)|NO||NULL||

h3. Description of the fields

h4. id

For *dbscripts_on_creature_death*, it is the entry of the creature. See "creature_template.entry":creature_template#entry.
For *dbscripts_on_creature_movement*, it is the "script id":Creature_movement#script_id of the waypoint. The PROPER formatting for the ID field is as follows: Creature_entry + 2-Digit Script ID (Starting at 01). Example: c.2386 has few movement_scripts, so 2386+01 = 238601 ... 23602 ..etc
For *dbscripts_on_event*, it is the event ID. There doesn't exist currently a full list of events. In any case, the event IDs are taken directly from gameobject WDB data or spell effect data. If both a gameobject and a spell activate the same event, the IDs will match.
For *dbscripts_on_go_template_use*, it is the entry of the button/lever. See "gameobject_template.entry":gameobject_template#entry.
For *dbscripts_on_go_use*, it is the guid of the button/lever. See "gameobject.guid":gameobject#guid.
For *dbscripts_on_gossip*, it is the "action script id":Gossip_menu_option#action_script_id of the gossip option.
For *dbscripts_on_promo_code_use*, it is the ?
For *dbscripts_on_quest_end*, it is the ID that is used in "CompleteScript":quest_template#CompleteScript in the quest template definition.
For *dbscripts_on_quest_start*, it is the ID that is used in "StartScript":quest_template#StartScript in the quest template definition.
For *dbsccripts_on_relay*, it is the entry of the creature. See "creature_template.entry":creature_template#entry + 2-Digit Script ID (Starting at 01). Example: c.21218 has few relay scripts, so 21218+01 = 2121801 ... 2121802 ..etc
For *dbscripts_on_spell*, it is the Spell ID. See "spell_template.Id":spell_template#Id

h4. delay

Delay in seconds before this current step of the script activates. 0 = instant.

NOTE: Delay is Cumulative From Script to Script with same ID.
Example: Script 1 Has 5 seconds delay and then if you want script 2 to trigger 3 seconds later you would use delay value 8 (5+3) for script 2 in the sequence.

h4. command

The type of action performed by the script after "delay":dbscripts#delay seconds have passed. The value of this field affects what other fields also need to be set.

The following commands can be used (enum ScriptCommand):

|_. Command|_. Name|_. Description|
|0|SCRIPT_COMMAND_TALK|Creature say/whisper/yell/textemote.|
|1|SCRIPT_COMMAND_EMOTE|Plays emote on a player/creature.|
|2|SCRIPT_COMMAND_FIELD_SET|Change the value at an index for the player.|
|3|SCRIPT_COMMAND_MOVE_TO|Relocate creature to a destination|
|4|SCRIPT_COMMAND_FLAG_SET|Turns on bits on a flag field at an index for the player.|
|5|SCRIPT_COMMAND_FLAG_REMOVE|Turns off bits on a flag field at an index for the player.|
|6|SCRIPT_COMMAND_TELEPORT_TO|Teleports the player to a location.|
|7|SCRIPT_COMMAND_QUEST_EXPLORED|Satisfies the explore requirement for a quest.|
|8|SCRIPT_COMMAND_KILL_CREDIT|Satisfies the kill credit requirement for a quest.|
|9|SCRIPT_COMMAND_RESPAWN_GAMEOBJECT|Spawns a despawned gameobject.|
|10|SCRIPT_COMMAND_TEMP_SPAWN_CREATURE|Temporarily summon a creature.|
|11|SCRIPT_COMMAND_OPEN_DOOR|Opens a door gameobject (type == 0).|
|12|SCRIPT_COMMAND_CLOSE_DOOR|Closes a door gameobject (type == 0).|
|13|SCRIPT_COMMAND_ACTIVATE_OBJECT|Activate (use) a gameobject.|
|14|SCRIPT_COMMAND_REMOVE_AURA|Removes an aura due to a spell.|
|15|SCRIPT_COMMAND_CAST_SPELL|Casts a spell.|
|16|SCRIPT_COMMAND_PLAY_SOUND|Plays a sound.|
|17|SCRIPT_COMMAND_CREATE_ITEM|Creates an item.|
|18|SCRIPT_COMMAND_DESPAWN_SELF|Despawns a creature with some delay.|
|19|SCRIPT_COMMAND_PLAY_MOVIE|Plays a movie to the target player.|
|20|SCRIPT_COMMAND_MOVEMENT|Change the movement type of a creature (idle, random, waypoint).|
|21|SCRIPT_COMMAND_SET_ACTIVEOBJECT|Set a creature as active object.|
|22|SCRIPT_COMMAND_SET_FACTION|Changes the faction of a creature.|
|23|SCRIPT_COMMAND_MORPH_TO_ENTRY_OR_MODEL|Morphs a creature go a given model.|
|24|SCRIPT_COMMAND_MOUNT_TO_ENTRY_OR_MODEL|Mounts or dismounts a creature to mount entry or model.|
|25|SCRIPT_COMMAND_SET_RUN|Makes a creature start or stop running.|
|26|SCRIPT_COMMAND_ATTACK_START|Makes a creature attack things within a radius.|
|27|SCRIPT_COMMAND_GO_LOCK_STATE|Change the GO lock or interact flags.|
|28|SCRIPT_COMMAND_STAND_STATE|Change the stand state of a creature.|
|29|SCRIPT_COMMAND_MODIFY_NPC_FLAGS|Change NPC flags of a creature.|
|30|SCRIPT_COMMAND_SEND_TAXI_PATH|Sends a player on a give taxi path.|
|31|SCRIPT_COMMAND_TERMINATE_SCRIPT|Stop script execution if a given creature entry meets conditions.|
|32|SCRIPT_COMMAND_PAUSE_WAYPOINTS|Pause or unpause waypoint movement.|
|33|SCRIPT_COMMAND_RESERVED_1|Enable or disable experience gain for a player.|
|34|SCRIPT_COMMAND_TERMINATE_COND|Stop script execution when a give condition is met.|
|35|SCRIPT_COMMAND_SEND_AI_EVENT|Send a give AI event for EventAI around the source with a given radius.|
|36|SCRIPT_COMMAND_SET_FACING|Turn resulting source to resulting target.|
|37|SCRIPT_COMMAND_MOVE_DYNAMIC|Move resulting source to a random point around resulting target or to resulting target.|
|38|SCRIPT_COMMAND_SEND_MAIL|Send mail from resulting source to resulting target.|
|39|SCRIPT_COMMAND_SET_FLY|Makes a creature start or stop flying.|
|40|SCRIPT_COMMAND_DESPAWN_GO|Despawns a gameobject.|
|41|SCRIPT_COMMAND_RESPAWN|Respawns a creature.|
|42|SCRIPT_COMMAND_SET_EQUIPMENT_SLOTS|Change equipment slots of the resulting source.|
|43|SCRIPT_COMMAND_RESET_GO|Reset a gameobject.|
|44|SCRIPT_COMMAND_UPDATE_TEMPLATE|Update creature entry.|
|45|SCRIPT_COMMAND_START_RELAY_SCRIPT|Launch relay script or relay template.|
|46|SCRIPT_COMMAND_CAST_CUSTOM_SPELL|resSource = Unit, cast spell at resTarget = Unit|

h4. buddy_entry

Commands except the ones requiring a player (like KILL_CREDIT) have support for the buddy concept. 

This means that if an entry for buddy_entry is provided, aside from source and target as listed above also a "buddy" is available.

Which one on the three (originalSource, originalTarget, buddy) will be used in the "command":dbscripts#command, depends on the "data_flags":dbscripts#data_flags (enum ScriptInfoDataFlags) Note that some commands (like EMOTE) use only the resulting source for an action.

Possible combinations of the "data_flags":dbscripts#data_flags |SCRIPT_FLAG_BUDDY_AS_TARGET 0x01|SCRIPT_FLAG_REVERSE_DIRECTION 0x02|SCRIPT_FLAG_SOURCE_TARGETS_SELF 0x04| are:

Where "A -> B" means that the "command":dbscripts#command is executed from A with B as target.

|Hex|A -> B|
|0x00|originalSource / buddyIfProvided -> originalTarget|
|0x01|originalSource -> buddy|
|0x02|originalTarget -> originalSource / buddyIfProvided|
|0x03|buddy -> originalSource|
|0x04|originalSource / buddyIfProvided -> originalSource / buddyIfProvided|
|0x05|originalSource -> originalSource|
|0x06|originalTarget -> originalTarget|
|0x07|buddy -> buddy|

h4. search_radius

Range in which the buddy defined in "buddy_entry":dbscripts#buddy_entry will be searched by "creature_template.entry":creature_template#entry.

|& data_flags|Description|
|& SCRIPT_FLAG_BUDDY_BY_GUID|"creature.guid":creature#guid instead of "creature_template.entry":creature_template#entry|
|& SCRIPT_FLAG_BUDDY_BY_POOL|"pool_creature.pool_entry":pool_creature#pool_entry instead of "creature_template.entry":creature_template#entry|

h4. data_flags

Defined in "enum ScriptInfoDataFlags"

|Hex|Type|Description|
|0|0x00|DEFAULT|s/b -> t|
|1|0x01|SCRIPT_FLAG_BUDDY_AS_TARGET|s -> b|
|2|0x02|SCRIPT_FLAG_REVERSE_DIRECTION|t* -> s* (* result after previous flag is evaluated)|
|4|0x04|SCRIPT_FLAG_SOURCE_TARGETS_SELF|s* -> s* (* result after previous flag is evaluated)|
|8|0x08|SCRIPT_FLAG_COMMAND_ADDITIONAL|Only for some commands possible.|
|16|0x10|SCRIPT_FLAG_BUDDY_BY_GUID|Interpret "search_radius":dbscripts#search_radius as "buddy_entry":dbscripts#buddy_entry GUID.|
|32|0x20|SCRIPT_FLAG_BUDDY_IS_PET|Do not search for an npc, but for a pet.|
|64|0x40|SCRIPT_FLAG_BUDDY_IS_DESPAWNED|Search for a creature that is despawned or dead.|
|128|0x80|SCRIPT_FLAG_BUDDY_BY_POOL|buddy should be part of a pool|

h4. OtherFields

Depending on what "command":dbscripts#command was used, the meaning and use for the following fields varies.

* *SCRIPT_COMMAND_TALK = 0*
** All information of the text (type, language, associated sound, emote) is stored in the "dbscript_string.":dbscript_string table
** datalong: "dbscript_random_templates.id":dbscript_random_templates#id - will randomize between all dbscript_strings in given template.
** dataint - 4: The text ID that the creature will say. See "dbscript_string.":dbscript_string. ID must be between 2000000000 and 2000010000. In case more then only dataint field is filled the texts will be used randomly.

* *SCRIPT_COMMAND_EMOTE = 1*
** datalong: The "emote ID":Emote to play.
** dataint1-dataint4 optionally, for random selection of emote
** Resulting source must be a unit.

* *SCRIPT_COMMAND_FIELD_SET = 2*
** datalong: Index of the field.
** datalong2: Value to place at the index.

* *SCRIPT_COMMAND_MOVE_TO = 3*
** datalong2: Length of the motion. This calculates as travel_speed*100. Use 0 for creature default movement.
** "data_flags":dbscripts#data_flags & SCRIPT_FLAG_COMMAND_ADDITIONAL will teleport the creature to the given location.
** x: X position to move to.
** y: Y position to move to.
** z: Z position to move to.
** o: Orientation to face.
** Resulting source must be a creature.
_Side note: If position is very near to current position, or x=y=z=0, then only orientation is changed._

* *SCRIPT_COMMAND_FLAG_SET = 4*
** datalong: Field index to be set.
** datalong2: Flag bit(s) to set.

|FIELD TO MODIFY|HEX VALUES|DECIMAL INDEX VALUE|COMMENTS|
|UNIT_FIELD_FLAGS|0x0006 + 0x0028|46-TBC  59-WOTLK|Modify UnitFlags for NPC (Source Must Be Unit)|
|UNIT_DYNAMIC_FLAGS|0x0006 + 0x009E|164-TBC  78-WOTLK|Modify DynamicFlags for NPC (Source Must Be Unit)|
|UNIT_NPC_FLAGS|0x0006 + 0x00A2|168-TBC  82-WOTLK|Modify NPCFlags for NPC (Source Must Be Unit)|

More Examples Can Be Found At: UpdateFields.h In Core

* *SCRIPT_COMMAND_FLAG_REMOVE = 5*
** datalong: Field index to be unset.
** datalong2: Flag bit(s) to unset.

* *SCRIPT_COMMAND_TELEPORT_TO = 6*
** datalong: Target Map ID. See "Map.dbc":Map.dbc.
** x: Teleport target x coordinate.
** y: Teleport target y coordinate.
** z: Teleport target z coordinate.
** o: Teleport target orientation.
** The source or target must be a player.

* *SCRIPT_COMMAND_QUEST_EXPLORED = 7*
** datalong: "Quest ID":quest_template#entry whose external status should be satisfied.
** datalong2: Distance away from the NPC/object that the player can be and have the script still take effect.
** The source or target must be a player.

* *SCRIPT_COMMAND_KILL_CREDIT = 8*
** datalong: Kill credit entry for quest (entry in quest_template.ReqCreatureOrGOId). If set to 0 then the creature source or target will be used.
** datalong2: Can be 0 = personal credit or 1 = group credit.
** The source or target must be a player.

* *SCRIPT_COMMAND_RESPAWN_GAMEOBJECT = 9*
** datalong: Guid of the gameobject to respawn. See "gameobject.guid":gameobject#guid.  Can be skipped for buddy.
** datalong2: Despawn time in seconds. If the value is &lt; 5 seconds then 5 seconds is used instead.

* *SCRIPT_COMMAND_TEMP_SPAWN_CREATURE = 10*
** datalong: Entry of the summoned creature from "creature_template.entry":creature_template#entry.
** datalong2: Despawn time (MILLIESECONDS). If set to 0 then the creature will be despawned only when killed.
** datalong3: The "pathId":creature_movement_template#pathId you want the creature to immediately start moving on (if MovementType=2)
** "data_flags":dbscripts#data_flags & SCRIPT_FLAG_COMMAND_ADDITIONAL will summon the creature as active object.
** dataint: SetRun (bool). 0 = off (default), 1 = on
** x: Summon target x coordinate.
** y: Summon target y coordinate.
** z: Summon target z coordinate.
** o: Summon target orientation.

* *SCRIPT_COMMAND_OPEN_DOOR = 11*
** datalong: Guid of the activated door. It's a "gameobject.guid":gameobject#guid. Can be skipped for buddy.
** datalong2: Delay before closing again the door. If the value is &lt; 15 seconds then 15 seconds is used instead.

* *SCRIPT_COMMAND_CLOSE_DOOR = 12*
** datalong: Guid of the activated door. It's a "gameobject.guid":gameobject#guid.  Can be skipped for buddy.
** datalong2: Delay before opening again the door. If the value is &lt; 15 seconds then 15 is used instead.

* *SCRIPT_COMMAND_ACTIVATE_OBJECT = 13*
** The source must be a unit and the target a gameobject.

* *SCRIPT_COMMAND_REMOVE_AURA = 14*
** datalong: "Spell ID":spell_template#Id.
** "data_flags":dbscripts#data_flags & SCRIPT_FLAG_COMMAND_ADDITIONAL will remove aura from the source only for the target unit.

* *SCRIPT_COMMAND_CAST_SPELL = 15*
** datalong: "Spell ID":spell_template#Id.
** datalong2: "TriggerCastFlags":dbscripts#TriggerCastFlags
** buddy_entry: "entry":creature_template#entry of the target
** search_radius: radius to search for "buddy_entry":dbscripts#buddy_entry or "guid":creature#guid of the specific guid if "data_flags":dbscripts#data_flags|16 is set
** dataint1-dataint4 optional. If some of these are set to a spell id, a random spell out of datalong, datint1, ..,dataintX is cast.

h4. TriggerCastFlags

|_. Bit|_. Name|_. Description|
|0|TRIGGERED_NONE|Not Triggered|
|1|TRIGGERED_OLD_TRIGGERED|Legacy bool support TODO: Restrict usage as much as possible.|
|2|TRIGGERED_IGNORE_HIT_CALCULATION|Will ignore calculating hit in SpellHitResult|
|4|TRIGGERED_IGNORE_UNSELECTABLE_FLAG|Ignores UNIT_FLAG_NOT_SELECTABLE in CheckTarget|
|8|TRIGGERED_INSTANT_CAST|Will ignore any cast time set in spell entry|
|16|TRIGGERED_AUTOREPEAT|Will signal spell system that this is internal autorepeat call|
|32|TRIGGERED_IGNORE_UNATTACKABLE_FLAG|Ignores UNIT_FLAG_NOT_ATTACKABLE in CheckTarget|
|64|TRIGGERED_DO_NOT_PROC|Spells from scripts should not proc - DBScripts for example|
|128|TRIGGERED_PET_CAST|Spell that should report error through pet opcode|
|256|TRIGGERED_NORMAL_COMBAT_CAST|AI needs to be notified about change of target TODO: change into TRIGGERED_NONE|

* *SCRIPT_COMMAND_PLAY_SOUND = 16*
** datalong: "Sound ID":SoundEntries.dbc#Content.
** datalong2: bitmask: 0/1=anyone/target, 0/2=with distance dependent, 0/4=map wide, 0/8=zone wide; 1&#124;2 = 3 is target with distance dependent.
** "data_flags":dbscripts#data_flags & SCRIPT_FLAG_COMMAND_ADDITIONAL: play music instead of sound
** Source may be any object. Target may be any player.

* *SCRIPT_COMMAND_CREATE_ITEM = 17*
** datalong: "Item entry":item_template#Content.
** datalong2: Amount.
** "data_flags":dbscripts#data_flags & SCRIPT_FLAG_COMMAND_ADDITIONAL: remove the item from player by the given amount
** Source or target must be a player.

* *SCRIPT_COMMAND_DESPAWN_SELF = 18*
** datalong: Despawn delay (MILLIESECONDS).
** Resulting source must be a creature.
** Despawns the target.

* *SCRIPT_COMMAND_PLAY_MOVIE = 19*
** datalong: Plays a "movie_id":Movie.dbc#Content to the target player.
** Target must be a player.

* *SCRIPT_COMMAND_MOVEMENT = 20*
** datalong: Change the "MovementType":creature_template#MovementType of a creature. Possible values: 0 = Idle, 1 = Random Movement, 2 = Waypoint Movement.
** datalong2: Wander distance (for random movement), "creature_movement_template.pathId":creature_movement_template#pathId (for waypoint movement).
** "data_flags":dbscripts#data_flags & SCRIPT_FLAG_COMMAND_ADDITIONAL will set random movement around the current position.
** Resulting source must be a creature.

* *SCRIPT_COMMAND_SET_ACTIVEOBJECT = 21*
** datalong: Can be defined as 1 = On or 0 = Off. Set a creature as active object, depending on the datalong value.
** Resulting source must be creature.

* *SCRIPT_COMMAND_SET_FACTION = 22*
** datalong: "Faction Id":FactionTemplate.dbc. If set to 0 will restore original faction from creature_template.
** Resulting source must be a creature.
** datalong2: Temporary faction flags

|Bit|Hex|Description|
|0|0x00|TEMPFACTION_NONE|When no flag is used in temporary faction change, faction will be persistent. It will then require manual change back to default/another faction when changed once.|
|1|0x01|TEMPFACTION_RESTORE_RESPAWN|Default faction will be restored at respawn.|
|2|0x02|TEMPFACTION_RESTORE_COMBAT_STOP|at CombatStop() (happens at creature death, at evade or custom scripte among others).|
|4|0x04|TEMPFACTION_RESTORE_REACH_HOME|at reaching home in home movement (evade), if not already done at CombatStop().|
|8|0x08|TEMPFACTION_TOGGLE_NON_ATTACKABLE|Remove UNIT_FLAG_NON_ATTACKABLE(0x02) when faction is changed (reapply when temp-faction is removed).|
|16|0x10|TEMPFACTION_TOGGLE_OOC_NOT_ATTACK|Remove UNIT_FLAG_OOC_NOT_ATTACKABLE(0x100) when faction is changed (reapply when temp-faction is removed.)|
|32|0x20|TEMPFACTION_TOGGLE_PASSIVE|Remove UNIT_FLAG_PASSIVE(0x200) when faction is changed (reapply when temp-faction is removed)|
|64|0x40|TEMPFACTION_TOGGLE_PACIFIED|Remove UNIT_FLAG_PACIFIED(0x20000) when faction is changed (reapply when temp-faction is removed)|
|128|0x80|TEMPFACTION_TOGGLE_NOT_SELECTABLE|Remove UNIT_FLAG_NOT_SELECTABLE(0x2000000) when faction is changed (reapply when temp-faction is removed)|

* *SCRIPT_COMMAND_MORPH_TO_ENTRY_OR_MODEL = 23*
** datalong: Creature "entry":creature_template#entry or "model_id":creature_template#modelid (depending on "data_flags":dbscripts#data_flags). If set to 0 then the creature will demorph.
** "data_flags":dbscripts#data_flags & SCRIPT_FLAG_COMMAND_ADDITIONAL to use datalong value as model_id explicit.
** Resulting source must be a creature.

* *SCRIPT_COMMAND_MOUNT_TO_ENTRY_OR_MODEL = 24*
** datalong: Creature "entry":creature_template#entry or "model_id":creature_template#modelid (depending on "data_flags":dbscripts#data_flags). If set to 0 then the creature will dismount.
** "data_flags":dbscripts#data_flags & SCRIPT_FLAG_COMMAND_ADDITIONAL to use datalong value as model_id explicit.
** Resulting source must be creature.

* *SCRIPT_COMMAND_SET_RUN = 25*
** datalong: Set run to 1 = On or 0 = Off
** Resulting source must be a creature.

* *SCRIPT_COMMAND_ATTACK_START = 26*
** Resulting source must be a creature and resulting target must be a unit.

* *SCRIPT_COMMAND_GO_LOCK_STATE = 27*
** Resulting source must be gameobject.
** datalong:

|Bit|Hex|Name|
|1|0x01|flag_go_lock|
|2|0x02|flag_go_unlock|
|4|0x04|flag_go_nonInteract|
|8|0x08|flag_go_interact|

* *SCRIPT_COMMAND_STAND_STATE = 28*
** Resulting source must be a creature.
** datalong: stand state (enum UnitStandStateType)

|Bit|Name|Comment|
|0|UNIT_STAND_STATE_STAND|normal behavior|
|1|UNIT_STAND_STATE_SIT|sitting on ground|
|2|UNIT_STAND_STATE_SIT_CHAIR|sitting on normal chair|
|3|UNIT_STAND_STATE_SLEEP|sleeping|
|4|UNIT_STAND_STATE_SIT_LOW_CHAIR|sitting on low chair|
|5|UNIT_STAND_STATE_SIT_MEDIUM_CHAIR|sitting on medium chair|
|6|UNIT_STAND_STATE_SIT_HIGH_CHAIR|sitting on high chair|
|7|UNIT_STAND_STATE_DEAD|play dead|
|8|UNIT_STAND_STATE_KNEEL|kneel|
|9|UNIT_STAND_STATE_CUSTOM|Depends on model animation. Submerge, freeze, hide, hibernate, rest|

* *SCRIPT_COMMAND_MODIFY_NPC_FLAGS = 29*
** Resulting source must be a creature.
** datalong: NPC Flags
** datalong2:

|Hex|Action|
|0x00|Toggle|
|0x01|Add|
|0x02|Remove|

* *SCRIPT_COMMAND_SEND_TAXY_PATH = 30*
** datalong: "Taxi path id":TaxiPath.dbc#Content.
** Source or target must be a player.

* *SCRIPT_COMMAND_TERMINATE_SCRIPT = 31*
** datalong: "Creature entry":creature_template#entry if provided. (Or pool ID if SCRIPT_FLAG_BUDDY_BY_POOL)
** datalong2: Search distance.
** dataint: Change of "waittime":creature_movement#waittime (MILLIESECONDS) of a current waypoint movement type. Negative values will decrease time.
** "data_flags":dbscripts#data_flags

|& data_flags|Description|
|& SCRIPT_FLAG_COMMAND_ADDITIONAL 8 0x08|If creature is found and alive, terminate script.|
|! SCRIPT_FLAG_COMMAND_ADDITIONAL|If creature is not found or not alive, terminate script.|

* *SCRIPT_COMMAND_PAUSE_WAYPOINTS = 32*
** datalong: 1 = Pause or 0 = Unpause waypoint movement.
** Resulting source or target must be a creature.

* *SCRIPT_COMMAND_XP_USER = 33*
** datalong: Set experience gain to 1 = On or 0 = Off
** Source or target must be a player.
_Side note: Only available on wotlk version._

* *SCRIPT_COMMAND_TERMINATE_CONDITION = 34*
** datalong: "Condition entry":conditions#condition_entry to check.
** datalong2: "Quest entry":quest_template#entry to mark as failed for the player (if provided).
** "data_flags":dbscripts#data_flags

|& data_flags|Description|
|& SCRIPT_FLAG_COMMAND_ADDITIONAL 8 0x08|Terminate when condition is false.|
|! SCRIPT_FLAG_COMMAND_ADDITIONAL|Terminate when condition is true.|

* *SCRIPT_COMMAND_SEND_AI_EVENT = 35*
** datalong: AI event id. Only EventAI events are accepted. Supported types see CreatureAI.h enum AIEventType.
** datalong2: Radius. If radius isn't provided and the target is a creature, then send AIEvent to target.
** Source and target must be a creature.

* *SCRIPT_COMMAND_SET_FACING = 36*
** Resulting source must be a creature; Resulting target must be a Worldobject.
** "data_flags":dbscripts#data_flags & SCRIPT_FLAG_COMMAND_ADDITIONAL also set TargetGuid of resultingSource to resultingTarget. In this case resultingTarget MUST be Creature/ Player
** datalong != 0 Reset TargetGuid, Reset orientation

* *SCRIPT_COMMAND_MOVE_DYNAMIC = 37*
** Resulting source must be a creature; Resulting target must be a Worldobject.
** datalong = 0:  Move resulting source towards resulting target
** datalong != 0: Move resulting source to a random point between datalong2..datalong around resulting target.
** orientation != 0: Obtain a random point around resulting target in direction of orientation
** "data_flags":dbscripts#data_flags & SCRIPT_FLAG_COMMAND_ADDITIONAL Obtain a point in direction of resulting target->GetOrientation + orientation
** for resulting target == resulting source and orientation == 0 this will mean resulting source moving forward

* *SCRIPT_COMMAND_SEND_MAIL = 38*
** Resulting source should be a Creature OR NULL. Resulting target must be Player
** datalong = mailTemplateId
** datalong2: AlternativeSenderEntry. Use as sender-Entry of the sent mail
** dataint1: Delay (>= 0) in Seconds

* *SCRIPT_COMMAND_SET_FLY = 39*
** Resulting source must be a creature.
** datalong = bool 0=off, 1=on
** "data_flags":dbscripts#data_flags & SCRIPT_FLAG_COMMAND_ADDITIONAL set/unset byte flag UNIT_BYTE1_FLAG_FLY_ANIM

* *SCRIPT_COMMAND_DESPAWN_GO = 40*
** Resulting target must be a Gameobject. Please note that not all gameobject types support this command.

* *SCRIPT_COMMAND_RESPAWN = 41*
** resultingSource = Creature. Requires SCRIPT_FLAG_BUDDY_IS_DESPAWNED to find dead or despawned targets

* *SCRIPT_COMMAND_SET_EQUIPMENT_SLOTS = 42*
** Resulting source must be a creature.
** datalong = resetDefault: bool 0=false, 1=true
** dataint = main hand slot; dataint2 = off hand slot; dataint3 = ranged slot

* *SCRIPT_COMMAND_RESET_GO = 43*
** Resulting target must be a Gameobject. Only works for Gameobject which are doors or buttons (GO type 0 and 1)

* *SCRIPT_COMMAND_UPDATE_TEMPLATE = 44*
** Resulting source must be a Creature.
** datalong = new creature entry. Must be different than the current one
** datalong2 = faction for which the entry is updated. 0 = Alliance, 1 = Horde. No other values are allowed

* *SCRIPT_COMMAND_START_RELAY_SCRIPT= 45*
** Resulting source must be a Unit. Target is not mandatory.
** datalong = dbscripts_on_relay Id which should be launched
** datalong2 = dbscript_random_template relay Id which should be launched. Takes precedence over relay Id.

* *SCRIPT_COMMAND_CAST_CUSTOM_SPELL= 46*
** Resulting source must be a Unit. Target is Unit.
** datalong = spellid
** datalong2 = castFlags, enum "TriggerCastFlags":dbscripts#TriggerCastFlags
** dataint1-3 define the &bp value for the spell. At least one field is required.