h3. C(ontinued)-MaNGOS Development
* "About C(ontinued) MaNGOS":https://github.com/cmangos/mangos-wotlk#readme
* "Beginner's Guide":https://github.com/cmangos/issues/wiki/Beginners-Guide-Home
* "Installation Instructions":https://github.com/cmangos/issues/wiki/Installation-Instructions
* "FAQ Frequently Asked Questions":https://github.com/cmangos/issues/wiki/FAQ-Frequently-Asked-Questions
* "Bug reports and patches":https://github.com/cmangos/issues/issues
* "Contributing Guidelines":https://github.com/cmangos/mangos-wotlk/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md
* "Coding Standards":https://github.com/cmangos/issues/wiki/Coding-Standards
* "Git tutorials":https://github.com/cmangos/issues/wiki/Git-tutorials
* "Roadmap":https://github.com/cmangos/issues/issues/1

h3. Database Structure

* "Description of the CMaNGOS database structure":https://github.com/cmangos/issues/wiki/mangosdb_struct
* "Description of the Characters database structure":https://github.com/cmangos/issues/wiki/charactersdb_struct
* "Description of the Realm database structure":https://github.com/cmangos/issues/wiki/realmdb_struct

h3. External Data

Other useful data such as dbc content used to populate some of the CMaNGOS tables can be found here. These pages are also used as templates for some CMaNGOS field descriptions when needed to list the content. We then update information on these pages when a change occurs and it is reflected in all pages that include these templates.

* "Description of dbc files content":https://github.com/cmangos/issues/wiki/dbc_files
* "Description of wdb files content":https://github.com/cmangos/issues/wiki/wdb_files
* "Description of the data field in the `character` table":https://github.com/cmangos/issues/wiki/character_data

h3. Client Dependent Information

* "Backporting-Tutorial":https://github.com/cmangos/issues/wiki/Backporting-Tutorial

h4. Classic

* "Client-File-Formats":https://github.com/cmangos/issues/wiki/Client-File-Formats
* "classic_backporting todo tbc commits":https://github.com/cmangos/issues/wiki/classic_backporting-todo-tbc-commits

h4. TBC

* "tbc_backporting-todo-wotlk-commits":https://github.com/cmangos/issues/wiki/tbc_backporting-todo-wotlk-commits

h4. Cata

* "cata_backporting todo wotlk commits":https://github.com/cmangos/issues/wiki/cata_backporting-todo-wotlk-commits